### **False negatives are acceptable.**
They can accept that they miss out on some good people. They'd prefer not to, of course, as it raises their recruiting costs. It is an acceptable tradeoff, though, provided they can still hire enough good people.

They're far more concerned with false positives: people who do well in an interview but are not in fact very good.

### **Problem-solving skills are valuable.**
If you're able to work through several hard problems (with some help, perhaps), you're probably pretty good at developing optimal algorithms. You're smart.

### **Basic data structure and algorithm knowledge is useful.**
Understanding trees, graphs, lists, sorting, and other knowledge does come up periodically. When it does, it's really valuable.

### **But it's not for everyone or every company or every situation.**
The above sections are intended to help you understand the thought process of the company.

For the right situation, when done well, it's a reasonable judge of someone's problem-solving skills, in that people who do well tend to be fairly smart.

`However`, it's often not done very well. You have bad interviewers or people who just ask bad questions.

It's also not appropriate for all companies. Some companies should value someone's prior experience more or need skills with particular technologies. These sorts of questions don't put much weight on that.

It also won't measure someone's work ethic or ability to focus. Then again, almost no interview process can really evaluate this.

This is not a perfect process by any means.

It is what it is, so let's do the best we can with it.

## **How Questions are Selected**
The questions asked this year at Google do not really differ from those asked three years ago. In fact, the questions asked at Google generally don't differ from those asked at similar companies (Amazon, Facebook, etc.).

`But` within a given category of question, there is little that makes it "belong" to one company instead of another. A Google algorithm question is essentially the same as a Facebook algorithm question.

## **It's All Relative**
You'll walk away saying, "Wow, Ellie did really well. I'll bet she's pretty good at math:' (Of course, she could have just gotten lucky. And maybe Chris got unlucky. You might ask a few more questions just to really make sure that it wasn't good or bad luck.)

Interview questions are much the same way. Your interviewer develops a feel for your performance by
comparing you to other people. It's not about the candidates she's interviewing that week. It's about all the candidates that she's ever asked this question to.

`For this reason`, getting a hard question isn't a bad thing. When it's harder for you, it's harder for everyone. It doesn't make it any less likely that you'll do well.
